---
layout: page
title: About
---
# About HCT at UVA

This initiative aims to unite faculty members engaged in research on human factors, computation, and artificial intelligence (AI) to address the pressing need for human-centered technology solutions. At the nexus of rapid technological advancements, there exists a compelling need to align technology with human values, ethics, and needs. This approach is informed by the fact that while AI is revolutionizing technology, it remains essential for these systems to be designed and developed for humans, by humans. Human-centered technology (HCT) extends beyond mere interface designs to include a broader spectrum, from AI systems that collaborate with humans in transparent manners to technologies crafted with utmost attention to ethics and systems that decisively support key sectors like healthcare and finance. Our proposal emphasizes that for UVA to be a vanguard in AI and related technologies, it must prioritize human-centric perspectives in technology development.

The UVA School of Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS) is uniquely positioned with its strong and diverse faculty expertise to pioneer research in HCT. Systems and Information Engineering (SIE) and Computer Science (CS) host multiple faculty members whose research spans human factors, computation, robotics, and AI. Multiple faculty from CS and SIE have joint appointments in both departments. In Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE) and Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), faculty work on developing state-of-the-art human-centered sensing and computation technologies. ECE faculty focus on introducing novel approaches to integrate HCT into infrastructure design and operation. Despite these strengths and commonalities, there has been a gap in extensive collaboration between the departments, primarily due to a lack of awareness and communication. However, our faculty members are well-equipped to contribute to the multidisciplinary endeavor. The observed silos present not a challenge but an opportunity. By bridging this gap, we can harness the full potential of interdisciplinary collaborations, leveraging our strengths and propelling SEAS to the forefront of human-centered technology research.

The latent potential in UVA SEAS for human-centered research remains largely untapped. With our initiative, we envision not only making this potential more visible within UVA but also amplifying our reputation externally. Prospective students exhibit significant interest in human-centered research. However, the lack of visible academic programs and cross-listed courses across departments has impeded communication of the potential for human-centered technology research at SEAS. We aim to make this potential more apparent within the UVA community and enhance the institution's reputation in HCT within the broader research community. 

Collaboration lies at the heart of our proposal. Beyond faculty integration, it's pivotal to engage the broader SEAS community, especially students. Their involvement in research projects, internships, and capstone courses initiated by the cohort will be invaluable. Furthermore, partnerships with industry giants and other academic institutions will bolster the cohort's objectives, ensuring a holistic growth ecosystem. 
The Human-Centered Technology Cohort is not merely a research initiative; it's a vision for the future where technology is crafted, keeping humans at the epicenter. We are eager to start this initiative and turn it into a reality that benefits our academic community, industry partners, and the broader research landscape.